hey everybody welcome to another episode
of after impact I am your host Tom Bilu
and I am here with none other than agent
Smith Mr Bilu welcome to the show thank
you for having me and guys welcome to
you we are here we're going to be
talking about Wesley D Chapman I
actually don't know does he want to I I
can never tell he introduces himself as
Wes but like on the official up and up I
think he goes by Wesley Wesley
officially yeah there we go Wesley
super good dude I really like him so
I've Had The Good Fortune of meeting him
a few times off camera both before and
after the episode just a good dude
trying to do really amazing things in
the world it was really an honor to have
him on and and what he's doing is
incredible I hope you guys have watched
the episode he outlines um exactly what
his mission is and what a human project
is trying to do it's massive about that
cuz I think it's amazing I can so
basically he he has an interesting
concept of wanting to put himself at a
business to make it unnecessary to reach
out to the world and help people
overcome things like shame um to really
make the world a better place and end
The Chronic and in some way systemic
abuse that we see in the world um and
and help people really understand how to
process through that and I think has a a
stance that um everybody is going to
have something in their life that hurts
them whether it's sort of the big things
that we think of as abuse or something a
little more simple people get into these
negative narratives um and and there is
a way out and his own story is so
profound that he's one of those guys
that he can talk about the subject of
overcoming abuse overcoming difficulties
overcoming internal and external
obstacles with such credibility because
of what he's been through that when he
says look playing the victim is a choice
um there's no way to push back against
it because you know he's he's lived it
psychological physical and sexual abuse
and has had to go through that and what
makes people that have been through it
so powerful is they've it's the way that
I think of it is if you've ever read an
instruction manual that feels like it
was written by somebody who's never seen
the thing that you're actually putting
together it's very very frustrating and
so when you have an instruction manual
that's written by somebody that's been
through it they know all those weird
little things that like how to explain
it how to walk like you wouldn't think
that shame would be the thing that
consumes people that have been abused
they didn't do it right it was somebody
doing something to them but he
understands it that is the gotcha that's
the thing that you're going to have to
overcome and so helping people be able
to process that and and systematize it
and create a company I mean it's a
nonprofit but you know an organization
around that to really help people um to
be working in the system child welfare
and and try to fix that system um I
think is is pretty amazing and then his
hope is that ultimately that they're
able to impact people young enough break
the cycle of abuse so that like he says
at the end of the day that he puts his
own organization out of business and
that he doesn't have to keep telling
this story and his hope is that you can
break that cycle you can systematize the
um the overcoming of the the mental
issues that lead people to do that kind
of stuff in the first place and
hopefully see that Cycle Stop yeah so
it's it's pretty amazing and my
understanding is they he and his team go
around the country they work with
schools they go into schools and they
work with the administrators there and
the parents and teachers um and identify
uh children who have been abused or who
are experiencing that and then work with
them to kind of go through that process
and uh overcome the you know the shame
that they're experiencing which is
incredible it's awesome and what I love
about Wes is that he really understands
scale and you know me like scaling
something is my my focus and the reason
is that a lot of people like they're so
focused on helping that one person
that's right in front of them and that
is a beautiful thing and I not
downplaying that like that's incredible
and what a gift um to to want to help
somebody on on an individual
basis but to do what he wants to do to
really end that cycle you have to think
about scale and so he does things that
are not scalable right so the in the
intro I read like all the hours and
things that he's done going um sitting
in front of these kids doing one-on-one
mentorship um doing his Camp which is is
you know very limited in number but then
he also understands social media and he
also understands um things that really
do scale and that are able to reach
people and his willingness to share his
story on a global stage and then he also
has massive events um he's got the human
Gathering um which I'm actually going to
be speaking at in April April um and so
he he's doing things like that to get a
lot of influencers in one place at one
time so that the message can scale so
that it can spread so and that's the
thing that I find so interesting about
Wes is he's he's really somebody who
understands both ends of the spectrum
hyper human highly individualistic
connected one-on-one all the way to how
do we scale this up how do we impact
what he says his goal is to impact A
Billion Lives and he's a beast on social
media he is a beast he's all over I hope
he's watching this right now I'm sure he
is yeah what's up
Wes um now that we've been uh we've been
on for a few minutes I want to welcome
our Facebook live audience and say that
um speaking of scale you can help us
scale by sharing this live feed and if
you do you have the opportunity to win a
10-minute chat with Tom Bilu here nice I
hear his 10-minute chats are dare I say
legendary I've heard the
same so join me for a 10-minute chat
yeah share this guys that really means a
lot you know that's our one ask right
now um so if you would share it we're
trying to get as many people into this
ecosystem as humanly possible to have
the kind of impact that we're trying to
have um I almost choked to death so
share soon before I pass away
yeah um and if you haven't seen the
episode yet highly encourage you to do
so it launched yesterday we're going to
drop it in the comment so you can check
it out or you can always check it out on
our
podcast um couple of YouTube comments I
want to I want to read because people
have been uh diving in already uh one is
from medli they say this guy is made out
of steel I can sense an aura of pure
strength around him yeah definitely Wes
is not for play nope he even says in the
episode like there's a a good side to
every bad thing that happens to you and
the when he looks at his own life he
says I don't think he would wish his
life on anybody the early part anyway
but he says now like you can't knock me
down like good luck right so if I've
survived all of this if I've gone
through this if I've had to like find a
way internally to be strong enough to
deal with that there just isn't anything
that life can throw at me that I won't
be able to overcome and and so yeah
saying that he's literally the Man of
Steel I'm with that yeah that's awesome
what do you think about that strategy of
sort of collecting
the hardships in your life and keep
keeping a a mental catalog of them and
then referring back to them to say I got
through this I can get through anything
I think it's critical yeah I I really do
oh yes yeah yeah yeah for sure and you
know you get what you focus on right so
if you're focusing on how those bad
things happened to you and why wo was me
why did they happen to me they'll be
destructive but if you focus on the fact
I survived this I got through this this
is something that I have found that path
through I'm the type of person that
looks at the hardships in my life and
says here's how you get to the other
side that's you begin to build an
identity it's the exact same thing that
happened to you but you're focusing on a
different element of it and when you do
that they become these empowering
moments and so yeah I think about that
all the time it's also one of the
reasons that I work out in the gym like
the gym is an easy way for people to
access that part of themselves because
it hurts and you're putting yourself in
a situation where you're going to suffer
like this morning I hurt my shoulder I
was just saying that before I started
rolling and um you you just have to look
at it and go yeah I'm willing to deal
with that yes I am going to show up next
time yes I'm going to be smarter about
it yes I'm going to fix this problem yes
I'm going to push through pain because
I'm the type of person that does that
and so when you like are just constantly
reinforcing something like that in your
own head then you become capable of more
and then the next time when a bigger
hardship comes then you're the kind of
person that gets their way through that
and then you just begin to have this you
know by the time you hit uh my age it's
you've got this um just catalog of
things that you've gone through that
you've survived that you're proud of how
you
reacted and uh it it becomes a selfing
filling prophecy of like I can handle
anything yeah that's great uh another
comment on YouTube from Nina Buck she
says Wow exclamation point thanks to
both of you for this wonderful session
Wes I'm now one of the billion you've
impacted that's awesome thanks Nina
that's great that's awesome uh another
one andina Castillo says one of my
favorites so far congrats on 20k that's
by the way and thanks for helping us get
there yeah no kidding all right so this
one I want to read I think is a nice
jumping off point for us it's from
Stefan Holstein he says the power of
story is truly King know your own
narrative is always so
powerful yeah I mean you know my
feelings on that it it really is and
what's coming out in Neuroscience now
about narrative and about how humans
like there's a reason that that as a
species we have used narrative for so
long and um it it is the way that our
metaphor seeking brain uses to
understand like that's how we assimilate
new information that's how we
communicate information that's how we
connect that's how we Bond um it it is
it's a fundamental driver of The Human
Condition and it's how we establish our
identity right for sure yes and I mean
in a in a scary way because most people
don't take control of it so they see
their I think people look at the moment
that they're living in right now as the
summation of their life and they think
like if you look at a math equation it's
like my past plus me equals like the end
right that's who I am and I think that
that's where people really go wrong
because they don't understand that yes
your past is an element um of who you
are but who you are can change at any
time and you're not the end of the
equation like who you are right now
today you're like in the middle of
something and I don't think enough
people look at it that way they they
live in this Perpetual state of finality
and because they're looking at
themselves like right now today is this
is the finale and tomorrow they're going
to wake up and this is the finale and
the next day the finale and and so on
and so forth that they feel like post
adolescence they're in this state of um
of being like a a marble statue like
there's there's no flexibility there's
no change and that we actually uh punish
people for changing and oh you've
changed right like if you want to really
hurt somebody you've changed it's like
college has changed you bro yeah like I
and so there's an awesome line by um
Jay-Z and he says you think I work this
hard to stay the same and it's like
that's always resonated with me dude if
you want to like if you want to hang
with me like my poor my longsuffering
wife it's like I won't be the same
person a week from now that I am today
and you know it's all about
understanding the trajectory of the
change taking control of that and really
changing in a in a way that makes sense
I think Cindy has a hand questions and I
also want to say Wesley's in the
comments word up Wesley D Chapman in the
house what's up Wes thank you for
joining us dude thank you for delivering
such an amazing episode you are an
incredible incredible human being so
thank you okay so our first question let
here um comes from Laura defrain in your
freedom fast Lan keynote address you
encourage us to adopt the mentality that
we are to blame for events in our lives
I love that mindset because it empowers
me in every area of my life however as a
victim of abuse myself I had a long
struggle trying to come to terms with
the fact that somehow my abuse was the
exception to this new outlook I think I
found a way to rectify this in my mind
thank you for this episode which made me
cry but can you clarify this for others
especially other abuse victims than yeah
we should repeat the question yeah for
our folks on the podcast so from Laura
defrain she says that in your talk in
Freedom Fast Ling you say that you are
responsible for everything that happens
in your life um but how do you Rec
recile that with some of the ideas
talked about in the episode with Wes um
that um and she's saying that I think
she reconciled it between um the abuse
that she's suffered is an actual
exception to that rule so she wanted to
say also thanks but get your thoughts on
that yeah so my take on that is you have
to recognize that the stance that
everything is my fault is absurd right
so this is that notion of every like you
have to be comfortable with the friction
between holding two competing ideas in
your head I am hyper hper aware that
blaming myself for a media right hitting
my wife is absurd I'm hyper aware that
blaming yourself for being AB abused is
absurd the reason it's empowering is all
you're trying to do the only reason that
you should take responsibility for
everything that happens in your life is
to remind yourself that you're in
control that you can make a different
choice that that's never going to happen
to you again and it's never going to
happen to you again for XYZ reason now
you're cognizant now you can make
different choices and I I only use blame
and fault to get people's attention Okay
so the way that I really like once
you're on the advanced class like you're
in the um you're doing your doctoral
thesis in mind control of your own mind
it's to understand now that you're there
now that I've got your attention I don't
use those words like I'm not trying to
beat myself up the last thing I think
somebody should do is beat themselves up
over being abused right like that that
is exactly 180 degrees in the opposite
direction of what I'm trying to get
people to do what I'm trying to get
people to understand is exactly what Wes
said in the episode that you know he the
last time he was abused he was 6 and a
half seven years old and he said but he
was bringing it up all the time and it
was like he was explaining why he was
angry or whatever because hey this is
what happened to me and he said that
person has continued to they haven't
physically touched me in like a decade
but they continue to touch me every day
because I keep coming back to that
became part of his identity right
exactly and so he said I'm going to put
the victim to bed and be a hero instead
and like he was able to get to that
point because he was willing to accept
responsibility for who he is today he
was willing to accept responsibility for
what he's focusing on
that's where I'm trying to get people so
at the end of the day you need to do and
believe that which empowers you right so
if if feeling ashamed of what happened
to you empowered you made you a better
person allowed you to help more people
then it would be awesome but it doesn't
it is totally destructive and people get
caught up in a loop of Shame of beating
themselves up of thinking that they're
unworthy it just isn't useful and you
said you know one of the things that
excited you about this episode was that
Wes and I were so on the same page with
so many things and one of those things
is efficacy like look at what works and
so he said I'm looking at my life and
playing a victim is getting me nothing
right it isn't like and here's what I
want people to understand like I have
the chills it isn't that you weren't
victimized you were like so very clearly
and if you've been abused in any form
you have been victimized but you still
have a choice as to whether you choose
the identity of the victim right and
that's an ongoing Perpetual State and
what I'm trying to get people to to see
is that's not going to serve you and so
what do you have to do to shake yourself
out of that mentality right and I'm just
saying take ownership of everything down
to your thought process down to what you
can do in the future down to how this is
going to impact who you are today who
you can become in the future all the
other stuff is is just that notion of
holding to competing ideas I I just
worry that when people draw a line and
they say well there's some things that
are my responsibility and some things
that aren't they never click over and
they're always giving themselves the out
of well well that thing thing was
horrible and so I should feel bad for
that and that one exists in a different
realm and so I'm going to continue to
let that eat me alive it just doesn't
work it's it's not an effective strategy
and that's all I'm trying to get people
to understand and and I think Wes um and
this is sort of a subtle Nuance but I
think Wes makes that point is that you
know don't let the story be told outside
of you don't let it be told by the
external things happening to you you are
responsible for the story about yourself
you're responsible for who you want to
be I actually wanted to talk to you
about that because he says um you need
to tell the story that you want and a
lot of people tell the story that they
think other people want right like e
whether it's Media or whether it's their
friends or family so how do you how do
you start to write your own
story this is one of those things where
the answer is so simple people don't
hear me and Wes talked about it in the
episode and it was so cool to hear him
say exactly the same thing like at some
point you if you want to write your own
story you write your own story it's that
simple simple so if I want to tell
myself that I'm the kind of person that
can overcome abuse I just start saying
that I'm I like literally these words I
am the type of person that can overcome
abuse I'm not going to focus on the
negative I'm going to help other people
I'm going to um look at the ways in
which this has helped me oh [__] like so
Wes right um yes I've been abused yes
that's a part of what I've gone through
I'm going to find my cathartic moment he
said it you know it happened behind
closed doors I'm going to find that
healing moment for me and then going to
focus on the things that Empower me and
so one of the things that he began to
focus on was that notion of I am
Unstoppable right and it [__] starts
with you just start saying it you start
saying it and it this is this is
understanding the neurological realities
of being a human and that the brain
cannot differentiate okay everybody
listen to this the brain cannot
differentiate between signaling to other
people and self-
signaling okay what you say to other
people you know will work right if you
go tell tell people Hey I'm um I'm
really into reading and you read a lot
and you just you don't even think twice
that people are going to believe about
you that you're into reading but what
people don't understand is when you
start telling someone I'm into reading
you start becoming more into reading
because you're saying it to yourself and
you're going to start reading a little
bit more because you're saying it to
yourself and then you're going to be
like whoa I really am into reading like
it doesn't like whatever that thing is
so let's say you were broken you were on
the floor you have been totally
devastated by abuse nothing your life
seems worthwhile you are contemplating
suicide okay you you've got no
credibility with yourself whatsoever you
do not believe about yourself that
you're the kind of person that is going
to overcome this in that moment in the
darkness that you're living in right
then and there you say to yourself I'm
the kind of person that pushes through
Darkness I'm the kind of person that
gets up off the floor I'm the kind of
person that will find a path to this
even when it seems hopeless I'm the kind
of person that doesn't give up okay you
actually say those things you can say
them out loud you can say them silent in
your silently in your head but as you
begin to repeat those things they will
become true because that's how the mind
works and it begins to wire and
literally you will look for ways like we
look for confirmatory evidence okay so
as you sit there and if you tell
yourself I'm the kind of person that
like this bad [__] is always happening
to that's just me you will find the
truth in that you will find the times
that you were abused the times that you
were neglected the times that people
made fun of you like will spring to mind
so powerfully and so aggressively that
it will be
self-evident that that is true but on
the other hand if you say I'm the kind
of person that gets up I'm the kind of
person that pushes through this I'm the
kind of person that gets better and
improves over time and no matter how
dark and painful like I keep going you
will find the evidence for that and it
will become self-evident as well
whatever you focus on whatever you tell
yourself becomes self-evident because
that's how the mind works okay and
that's that's what people don't
understand this is just a mechanism I'm
just telling people to tap into a
mechanism of the human brain it looks
for confirmation not disconfirmation it
is easier to see something that is there
than something that is not there so if
you say to yourself I'm the type of
person that bad things happen to you
don't start thinking of the Thousand
great things that happen to you your
mind latches on to the thousand ways in
which that is a true statement instead
of the thousand ways in which that is a
false statement both are equally true
okay that is just how the the human mind
works all right so
what if you um are not aware of the
narrative you're telling yourself what
if you have a um negative uh
self-narrative cycle happening and it's
happening at a subconscious level and
you're not
aware that is happening I promise for
everyone and that's why the rather than
trying to spend all your time
identifying like what's that
subconscious Loop that's playing start
telling yourself an empowering narrative
out loud write it down say it out loud
say it to your significant other say it
to a best friend say it to a stuffed
animal doesn't matter just start saying
it then that's going to be the thing
that you're focusing on then that's
going to be the thing that you start
really reinforcing in your mind and then
maybe just maybe you'll start to be
aware of the times where something slips
in and this is what Daniel aan Dr Daniel
Aon calls ants automatic negative
thoughts and people have to get very
very good at stamping those out so one
it starts with just consciously telling
yourself a narrative and then you'll
find that your mind begins to wander and
so this is something I was thinking
about last night as I was having trouble
falling back
asleep and I thought it is so
fascinating like my mind goes from one
notion to the next notion to the next
notion to the next notion and like
ceaselessly and what's fascinating about
that and why it's so important to
understand that that is what the mind is
programmed to do okay that is what the
Mind does is it moves from thought to
thought to thought to thought to thought
it is ceaseless meditation is about
learning to stop that automatic process
and honestly the only way that I've ever
been able to do it I'm sure there are
amazing people that just have something
figured out that I don't but the only
way that I've been able to do it is to
put my mind onto something like the the
part of the cycle of the breath that I'm
on because my mind will be occupied by
something okay that is the nature of the
brain it's like understanding that
humans are an active species that go
into an environment try to master that
environment that's just what we do and
so once you understand that about people
and the way that you have these internal
drivers once you understand that the
mind is going to latch on to all these
things you will understand the absolute
necessity of taking control of that so
your mind is going to go to something
but if you don't take control of that
it's going to it it just slides to the
protective mechanisms which are almost
always about the ways you're
insufficient the reasons you shouldn't
leave the house the reasons that you
shouldn't put yourself out there because
it's it is more dangerous to engage to
go do something to take a risk in front
of the social group than than it is to
retreat Inward and so the until you
train it
otherwise because you can train it until
you train it otherwise that's what your
brain will do all right want to remind
everyone what we're doing here we're on
Facebook live we are doing after impact
this is the show where Tom and I sit
down and go deep postgame analysis of
the episode which launched yesterday
with Wesley Chapman highly encourage you
to go check it out if you haven't seen
it already we are giving away a
10-minute chat with Tom Bilu if you
share the live feed it's going to help
us scale reach more people grow our
community that's what we're doing in
Phase One of impact theory yes so Cindy
do we have any questions from our live
audience yeah we do this one from Joe
Cross um what have you found are the key
triggers that compel people to change
their
mindset question is from Joe Cross and
it is what have you found are the key
triggers that compel people to change
their mindset pain suffering like Rock
Bottom I I don't not many people change
until they' they've just they're
encountering something that they can't
take
anymore and then they're they're going
to push back against that like they they
no longer feel that they have any other
option um I I'm deeply distressed by
that as a human characteristic um but
that was like chasing money for me it
was the only thing that snapped me out
of that was I got so unhappy that was
like I'd rather be poor than this right
I don't want to keep suffering drug
addicts same thing got to hit rock
bottom there's got to be some moment
where it's like I would rather anything
other than this like it's just it's so
painful
um yeah I I have not seen anything that
is consistently true other than that
interesting okay um I want to read
another comment from YouTube so this is
from Tony Smithson he says uh I can
specifically remember so he's talking
about the Elmo effect I can specifically
remember certain Christmases where I ask
for only one thing and at the time
seemed like the only thing I wanted in
the world skipping ahead I've recently
ended a near fouryear relationship with
the same idea of self-sabotaging the
relationship by thinking the thoughts of
you never listen to me you never hear
what I'm saying and when I ask for
certain things it is not reciprocated so
I'd love to dive in a little bit more
into the Elmo effect I know we touched
on it briefly but what is the Elmo Elmo
effect and uh why is that such an
important thing to recognize that's
happening so this comes from one of uh
Wesley's actual um people that he was
working with helping them process
through something and they were cuz he
said look not not every trauma is like
some big Grand write a book about trauma
some of it is just not feeling heard not
feeling like your feelings are validated
um and he said it can stem from
something as simple as you ask every
Christmas for an Elmo doll and you get
all this amazing stuff and Xbox cool
toys whatever but you don't get the Elmo
doll and and so even though it's
something that from the outside you just
think wow that's so trite and Petty like
how can you be obsessed about that but
people do and they it makes them feel a
certain way it makes them feel not heard
and he said people will carry that with
them for years and years and years and
let it impact the um the relationships
that that they're in and things like
that um so that really really really
Rings true to me and I think that people
do that um it's obviously not very
productive or
helpful um and then getting into like
how to deal with things like that the
way that um my wife and I did it was
coming back to that base of do you
believe that that person loves you and
if the answer is yes then it isn't that
they because they may really not be
validating your feelings they really may
not be hearing you they may not
understand but you marry that with okay
I believe that they love me so I I will
for now just assume they're not doing it
on purpose and then I have to take
ownership of this I'm not communicating
in a way that's effective they're
clearly not hearing me and this is where
my wife and I began to Define terms
right because the other person has their
own internal life they're you know going
through things they're distracted by
their own ants their own automatic
negative thoughts they're distracted by
all the things that they're trying to do
in the world they're maybe blinded by
something they're excited about it I
mean it's not always bad like they're
just amped and so they really aren't
hearing you but if you take
responsibility for learning to
communicate that in a way that's
effective using words that the other
person knows hey you need to stop and
listen to what's going on here or that
they have the opportunity to explain why
they're not going to you know give you
the Elmo doll or whatever um then you
can keep the the lines of dialogue open
yeah yeah it's interesting um Wes talks
about in the episode uh that like you
said not not everyone is suffering in
the same way and just because someone
has a has a different circumstance
doesn't mean that they're still going
through some pain and Trauma um and your
brain uh if I'm kind of summing him up I
think he says your brain doesn't really
distinguish between degrees of trauma or
pain subjectively speaking right
suffering is equal to the sufferer so do
you feel the same way and why do you
think this is an important concept if so
yeah I I do feel the same way and the
example that he gives in the episode is
you know he had never broken a bone in
his body but he's you know stubbed his
toe on things and it it is a blinding
pain and he said I fully accept that
somebody who's broken their leg in six
places and have had to have it reset and
you know he didn't push it this far but
like somebody get their bone reset and
they pass out cuz you know the pain is
so intense that person is going to go
I'll take a stubbing of my toe like the
the um scope of it just isn't the same
but you know just like on a graph it's
like there are times
where if you zoom in the Peaks and
valleys look the same and then you zoom
out because there's an amplitude that's
you know magnitudes bigger then the
other thing looks small but when you
zoom in the like amplitude of it looks
the same um that that example would be
way cooler if we were showing something
yeah um but I I think that that's
important for people to understand
because this notion of automatic
negative thoughts so you think I've you
know I'm obsessing over my Elmo doll um
I shouldn't be this is so stupid there
are people that are going through way
worse and so now you're compounding the
problem because you don't feel listen to
and you think you're an idiot and you're
beating yourself up for it but it's
that's not making the Elmo effect go
away right the thing that's going to
make the Elmo effect go away is to
recognize that it is a deep-seated human
desire to feel heard and understood and
you need to communicate that to your
partner and until you do like that's
going to be something that's in your
mind and so allowing yourself that that
is the amplitude of the life that I've
lived and thusly like those things are
very intense for me they mean something
to me and they may not turn into chronic
anxiety or anything but it's it's a
meaningful event in their life and they
need to process through it and and
allowing themselves that instead of just
further ridiculing themselves I think is
is very important yeah and it's also um
I think it's helpful for people to
understand that you know and I think
people do this that they they diminish
their own um pain and suffering right
well oh I'm not really going through
anything hard like you know I live in a
developed country I have means um
available to me and yet I'm still
anxious or I'm still stressed or I'm
still dealing with these things and it's
easy to diminish that but I think one of
Wes's points was you know you're not
alone um just because people are
suffering in a different way doesn't
mean it's necessarily any worse than
what you're going through internally
yeah a definitely and B diminishing it
is not the same as dealing with and I
think that's where people get stuck is
because they're trying to dismiss it
because they're trying to diminish it
they never actually process it and in
not processing it it's going to linger
and so for Wes who's somebody who's
trying to help people live their best um
life it that's holding you back from
that right and so it's it's super sad
and and this is one of those things it's
like it's such a bummer because you're
watching somebody who could really be
extraordinary and it's not like they're
being held back by something massive
that you would look at and go wo that
really would would be hard to overcome
they're being held back by a Litany of
really stupid stuff and it's you know
the the minor things but their life is
still held back and that's Wes's point
right your life is still held back like
until you're able to process through
that until you're able to have the
Breakthrough the cathartic moment the
healing moment you're not going to get
on the other side of it and so learning
to process through even the small things
I think is really important that's
awesome so I was listening to run the
jewels this morning what is that they're
a rap Duo run the jewels run the jewels
check them out they're really wow I'm
going to have to Killer Mike and LP um
shout out Killer Mike and LP there's a
uh there's a line in in one of their
songs on the new album says can't pick
up no Crown holding what's holding you
down can't pick up no Crown holding
what's holding you down and that really
I felt like was perfect for this episode
you know letting go of the burden of the
things that are holding you back because
you can't you can't pick up the crown if
you're holding the other thing you got
to set that down can can we talk about
um raccoons for a second yeah and I
prefer to say raccoons even though I
know that it's raccoons but like
raccoons is so much more fun to say um
so do you know how to trap a
raccoon no I put a shiny object in a box
where they can put their paw it's a paw
right yeah they can put their paw into
it but once they grab the object and
make a fist they can't get it back out
and they won't let go of the object like
they will just stay stuck because
they're like I'm not letting go of this
thing and like ridiculous it it is
ridiculous I can't believe it works but
like
that desire to even hold on to something
negative when it becomes a part of your
identity it is who you are it's your
burden it's your yoke to Bear right like
that people do that [__] and like
they're almost more afraid like who am I
if I don't have this who am I if I don't
have this burden this pain this whatever
and so to let go is to like go into the
unknown of like who do I blame now right
like if I don't have that external thing
that has done this to me like well then
what like is this really all my fault
and I see like that is the thing that I
see hold more people back than anything
is not knowing who they are without
their pain and so they so you were
quoting the line from run the jewels the
Jews run the jewels I want to know like
in the comments who I've never heard of
these guys oh they're big right now I'm
I am I'm going to have to check them out
a I'm super into hip-hop they're hip-hop
yeah yeah all right super into hipop
then B I even though at 33 most people
stop seeking out new music I do not I
seek it all new all right so back back
to the shiny object syndrome uh people
if you want to trap a raccoon um you put
a shiny object in a box where they can
get their paw through but once they
clutch the object they can't get it back
out and instead of letting it go and
pulling their hand out they just keep
holding on to that thing which is
absolutely crazy to me um but that's
where I see a lot of people go because
the the pain that you're going through
that thing that happened to you that
negative thing in your past it really
does become a part of your identity and
people don't know who they are without
that and don't want to take
responsibility because to take
responsibility for everything that's
happened in your life you have to go
backwards right and now you're painting
backwards over everything that I was
living in a suboptimal mindset and that
idea so freaks people out because of
what they build their self-esteem around
people build their self-esteem around
being right and so they're not prepared
to invalidate
99.999% of their life to say that I was
wrong for all those years that I could
have been thinking in a more effective
way but if you just make a subtle shift
and don't build your selfesteem around
being right build it around identifying
the right answer then all a sudden it's
like oh my God like I just realized that
I could be doing things more optimally
this is amazing I'm so excited and I'm
the kind of person going back to that
notion of how do you build that new
identity you just say it I'm the kind of
person that builds my identity around
identifying the right answer this is
like just the other day um I was with um
Matt
latti who's with uh Vayner Talent
amazing guy super cool guy uh he was
with me at South by Southwest and he
wanted to do those photo booths and I
hate those things love those things I
hate them I absolutely hate that and he
was like but Tom you're the guy that
says yes to everything I was like you
[__] so I was like you know what
you're absolutely right and so we got in
we had a blast because I just flipped
that switch in my mind and and was
reminded by somebody of the identity
that I build that say yes to everything
so ended up being a lot of fun so you
know shifting that subtle but massive
thing about what you build your
self-esteem around allows you to let go
of said shiny object get your hand out
of the Trap and continue moving forward
yeah and I think the beautiful part of
that is once you let go you open
yourself up to all this possibility and
potential that you could be reaching no
question the crown that's the crown I
think I think that's what they you got
to pick up the crown but you first have
to let go of the other thing no question
um all right all right we have any more
questions from
Facebook thank you for introducing me
you know and I didn't I'd heard the song
multiple times but hadn't really
listened to the lyrics and then this
morning I was like oh it was like a
light bulb you know and then it was
perfect for this episode today and I
have to say so you've now introduced me
to two hip-hop I had never heard the
song Monster by Kanye great song and
Jay-Z and Nicki Minaj Nicki Minaj thank
you which is fantastic so I'm grateful
for that now I get to check out run the
jewels I got to give a shout out to my
buddy Jarvis cuz he's is really the one
putting me on to all the good head now
is he your home Ai No he is not but oh
that's sad yeah all right well what's up
Jarvis um any questions from our
Facebook live audience um this one from
Dan Fitness U put the victim to bed and
wake the hero instead how have you put
the V victim to bed when you have had to
overcome an issue or
insecurity so that's wait got repat the
question sorry thank you from Dan brro
Fitness he's quoting the uh Wesley uh
put the victim to bed and put wake the
hero up instead which is an awesome line
in the episode and then he says um to
Tom how have you put the victim to bed
uh in your life so the the thing that
really made me feel like a victim was my
own mind and I think that's how I got
really obsessed with it so I'm just an
obscenely slow reader I've never
considered myself very smart I've always
been surrounded um if you've read
Malcolm gladwell's outliers like somehow
some way I just grew up around like even
to this day some of the smartest people
I've ever met were people that I went to
high school with and so it just always
made me feel stupid um so I grew up
feeling like I was stupid um not feeling
like I was really exceptional at
anything um and just being like woe as
me about the hand that I was dealt right
and so I actually have you seen the
movie
amadas not the whole thing I've seen oh
my God like watch this movie I so many
people are going to identify with this
so in the movie there's two characters
there's amadas Mozart who was amazing
one of the most remembered um artists of
all time and then there's this guy named
solieri now the story is largely told
from soler's point of view so it's his
take on amadas and in it solieri
basically says I have been given a curse
I have the chills just remembering this
I love this movie soier says I've been
given a curse I'm just good enough to
recognize how much better Amadeus is I'm
just good enough to recognize how much
better he is and that's how I've always
felt like as a kid I always felt like
I'm just smart enough to realize how
smart these people are like how much
smarter than I am they are and I used to
think if I had just been either a little
bit Dumber or a little bit smarter that
I would have been happier and so that
really haunted me for a long time I
can't tell you like and you know in the
context of like what Wes is talking
about like hey wo is me this is clearly
a [__] first world problem but like
that really was my identity for a very
long time and I kept encountering and
and that's why I had a fixed mindset
right I was trying to put myself like I
just wanted to be somewhere where I was
the smartest for once and that made me
make a lot of really dumb decisions for
a very long time and it was until I was
in my mid-20s that I began to realize
wait a second if I'm goal oriented and
what I really want is to become rich and
I've talked about that's it's not my
goal anymore but like that was my whole
big thing then if I really want to be
rich then why am I doing things to prove
that I'm smart like do you want to be
the smartest person in the room or do
you want to get wealthy like make a
decision and so it was once I found
being um efficacious like doing what's
effective that things began to shift and
I realized H like I'm doing something
weird here and what I ultimately
realized was building my self-esteem
around being right so um that that was a
that was a big thing for me so I had to
get over that I had to look inward I had
to begin to research the brain I had to
understand how the mind worked so that
was my victimhood and my poor memory if
I didn't already say that like my
memory's is and I am well aware that
when I say this I'm reinforcing it um so
I need to decide how to better handle
this but I have historically had a bad
memory um and that's always been very
frustrating for me and so it's ironic to
me that one of the things that um I've
gotten known for on the show is having
like a great memory and being able to
pull like all this information up and my
thing is I remember about 10% of what I
encounter so my strategy has just been
to encounter so much information that
the 10% from a raw number standpoint is
big but it's still only 10% and that um
I remember one time God I'm derailing
but I remember one time uh me and a
friend were having a conversation with
this third guy and the third guy was he
had heard somewhere that like oh a book
of questions or something and like would
you give up everything that you own to
have a photogra photographic memory and
he was like I don't even understand like
how would that be advantageous and I was
like dude I would give up everything I
own and then some to have a photographic
memory because the the power that you
would have
but on the flip side just to wrap this
one up in a bow my wife wishes she was
as forgetful as I am because I forget
the bad things as well as the good so
like I don't hang on to [__] interesting
and so it's like shifting that Focus to
hey maybe it's my superpower maybe
forgetting is the thing that has allowed
me to find happiness to not linger in
the negativity to be able to change what
I build my self-esteem around and you
know just like all the things in my past
just become like these dim memories yeah
yeah that's great um have you heard of
people going on a media diet no but I
can sort of sus it out they stop taking
in media they they stop with news media
they stop with social media um and they
just take a break yeah I've heard of the
concept not in those words but the
reason I thought about it was again
going back to Wes's idea of um people
struggling with especially um young
people struggling with their identities
um and you know it's because they're
listening to all these external stories
about themselves what they should be
like that they should be prettier
smarter more athletic achieving more
whatever and not listening to their own
story so I was just wondering if you'd
heard of that what do you think of that
as a concept of uh trying to listen to
yourself a little bit more I think
people should definitely listen to
themselves more I'm I don't feel
compelled to go on a media diet for the
following reason I curate so
relentlessly what I led into my mental
space um and
if am I the only one hearing that no I'm
hearing that too well hopefully the
Facebook live audience is not hearing
the bizarre static noise um but it if
you let things into your world that are
not empowering that are not moving you
forward then you should just take go on
a diet of that like that that's never
going to serve you um so I use media in
a very empowering way I'm always looking
for things that like um here's something
that I've come across recently to finish
that statement um I find the thing that
destroys anxiety for me is
Fascination and when I find something
that like really like who that is so
interesting and and this is very much in
the context of preparing for um uh an
impact Theory episode right so um that's
where I'll get my most anxious preparing
for that and I know that like and the
funny thing is the more episodes we do
the more pressure there is on me right
it's like oh Tom you're intros are
amazing and it's like well [__] now I
really have to write like good intros so
it's like and you know like oh dude the
way that like you can go anywhere with a
convers well Jesus now like I have to be
able to do it so it's like the the
temptation to let all of that stuff in
like I combat it by really getting
fascinated by the person right so
watching the watching Wes's talks and
like seeing what he's trying to do and
what his mission is and like finding
myself like whoa like this guy is so
interesting like I just want to sit down
and talk with him and that like that to
me man that is a real way to combat a
lot of this stuff is is to find like
some and that's what I'm trying to do in
media consumption is is find that thing
that makes me feel alive find that thing
that excites me find that thing that
gives me a new piece of information that
lets me go and do something because I
use media in that way I've never thought
about going on a diet but you you have
to be very careful about what you spend
time thinking about you have to be
careful about the narratives that you're
introducing to your life right right and
like even what I read I'm so ferocious
like I know and this may sound like a
lot to some people but it sounds like so
little to me I know that I'm going to
read about 50 books in a year so it's
like I'm only going to read 50 books
like when I think about how much
knowledge is out in the world I'm like
God like I really have to be careful
about what I choose to read because like
that book is instead of another book and
I have that like sense of like be
careful so be careful speaking of
narrative um you and Wes go pretty deep
into comic books superheroes you guys
are super aligned there so what do you
think of his understanding of comics as
self-empowering narratives I love it man
and and I wonder sometimes like how much
of this is that um that we grew up with
that and that was like I remember like
before I had my driver's license like
begging my parents to drive me there was
one comic shop and this is you know
before you could get a digital comic so
like you had to drag yourself to the one
comic store that existed in your town
inner sanctum that was yours Bakersfield
nice sanctum and I am so as evidenced uh
by my earlier statement about my memory
I don't remember the name of the one
that I went to but I can picture it so
clearly like I can tell you I could walk
right now to exactly where the Image
Comics were because image was my jam so
I was all about Image Comics and uh
what's an image comic oh what what is
happening right now you don't know Image
Comics No oh my God okay she has a past
because I guess you're super young as
well oh man are they like I don't think
they really have as much juice anymore
so imagine this back in the day a bunch
of comic book artists and um writers get
together and they're like we're being
taken advantage of by the big companies
so what we're going to do is we're going
to be artist owned you guys are going to
maintain the rights to your own
characters um and and really be able to
do something with this it was like Todd
McFarland the guy that created
Deadpool's name I'm forgetting right now
um I really want to remember it doesn't
matter uh a bunch of them I don't
remember how many get together and they
formed this comic book company and
because most of them were artists as
well like it was like the ey gloss paper
it was like unbelievably cool artwork
and I'm so visual so for me it was like
that was amazing so I was like way way
into Image Comics would make my parents
drive me there as soon as I got my
license I started driving myself there
and I had like some friends none of them
were like really into Comics like I was
into Comics so anyway to wrap it back up
I don't know how much of this is like we
just all grew up with that and it became
really a part of like you could enter
this whole other world and these people
like Comics my fascination with Comics
if I'm honest started with like the
fantasy of waking up one day with
superpowers like that was do you get
this do you like I find almost a relief
valve in my brain by allowing myself to
ask and this is why when somebody says
like okay if you could get one wish what
would you wish for I have an answer and
it is really good and I thought a lot
about it because it there's like some
like weird little release valve to go
you could wake up tomorrow with
superpowers I love that what is the wish
just for people who haven't heard this
before all right so if a genie comes
there's really only one answer through
simple thoughts to be able to um change
matter into anything that you want it's
the only one that's basically like more
wishes right so I could be like oh you
have a tumor no you don't bro you're now
a superhuman right so it's like stuff
like that like oh you're on Mars and you
can't breathe oxygen yes you can it's
like now there's oxygen or now you don't
need oxygen like the lungs can whatever
or like you just just totally transcend
biology like but yeah so I can going on
it it's amazing it is the answer so
anybody that wants to borrow that should
the manag genie roll up at your house
you can thank your boy and Wes said he
would be Iron Man is his superhero Yeah
question that's my favorite as well it's
your favorite that's that's what you
would he's the only other person I've
heard say that's their favorite that's
my favorite fors for the exact reason
that he gave which is he doesn't have
superpowers um he just busts his ass and
creates you know this suit that allows
him to do amazing things right and then
he says that that suit uh that that idea
that metaphor is that I can put on any
armor I want to become anything I need
to become to empower my life right which
is what Iron Man does yes now so Wes
like has like a whole background thing
with like that notion of wearing a suit
that I think is really powerful and I
won't um bastardize it you guys should
watch the episode if you haven't already
I was pretty powerful and and he talks
about how that actually took him
somewhere not positive for a while and
then he was able to sort of regain is
equilibrium with that um the question
that I am always expecting someone to
ask me at least Joseph Martell Joshua
Martel I can't believe I messed with his
name Joshua Martell should be asking me
um is why don't you want to be Batman
because he also doesn't have superpowers
anybody know the answer I don't know the
answer Batman is consumed by
negativity and I'm totally motivated by
yeah look I yes I love Batman love
Batman but the I can't I can't say that
he's my favorite because he's he's
really he hasn't transcended the
negativity the negative things he's used
it as motivation that's super powerful
but he's he's in some ways consumed by
it he's brooding he's brooding yeah all
right um we're on Facebook live right
now I think we have some
questions potentially if we don't I want
to uh talk to everyone about um the
impact Theory store which just launched
so whoa look at that self-promotion hit
it hit it there it is wear wearing the
impact Theory shirt right here um anyone
can get one now go to shop. impact
theory.com we're doing a special
giveaway right now promo because we just
launched so use the code kickoff that's
kickoff in uh in the checkout and you
can get 35% off nice for sure and these
things like I'm super shocked at how
well they've done so to anybody in the
feed right now that bought one of the
shirts man thank you so much like they
really sold like hot cakes I think we
were all taken a back uh by how fast
they sold so thank you guys thank you
very very much and we promise that the
store won't be embarrassing for
uh we will improve it it literally right
now you go and you're going to be like
oh it's a shirt there's a shirt there is
a shirt it is very singular uh we will
be adding stuff we're also looking for
people if you want to submit designs um
if there's a quote or anything from the
show from the ethos in general that
you'd love to see made into a shirt
submit it you can send it to connect
impact theory.com and um if it really
does fit and people are super into it
then we will um get it up there I think
that signal is 4 minutes all right we
have four minutes so that's or just
ideas that you have for uh things you'd
want to see in the impact Theory store
yeah word got a request for poster great
nice request and poster poer definitely
do some of those um well those are all
the questions I have did you want to
talk about anything else no man I just
um I I really really encourage people to
watch this episode Wes I think has um
nailed so many things about the way the
mind works and about an empowering
belief system about overcoming um
obstacles things that have happened to
you um the way that people trap
themselves in a negative self-narrative
I think he's got answers to a lot of
that stuff his own story is just super
super inspiring I think a lot of people
have been moved by this certainly people
have written in saying that he really
really touched them um and and yeah I
just there's no substitute uh to hearing
directly from him and like check out
what he's doing with a human project and
and the human Gathering yeah incredible
incredible stuff uh be a part of it and
if you're in la oh Cindy do you know the
date April what is the human Gathering
uh it's I think it's the 6th but hold on
man that's like super soon so all right
so April 6 this April 6
2017 um if you guys are in La come by
I'm going to be speaking um I will do my
best to like really rocket and deliver
just a massive ton of value and you guys
know my shtick if you come and you have
a question I will stay in the lobby if I
have to until every question has been
answered um I've clocked like I'm
forgetting now and I'm probably blowing
it was at least 6 hours it might have
been as many as 8 hours um at a recent
event that I just stayed and answered
questions um I will keep going until you
have no more I live to serve this
community and to do amazing things uh
for you guys so come out support Wes um
and then hit me up what's that we'll be
sharing more about yeah for so we will
definitely keep you guys a breast as we
get closer um but I think that's it so
guys thank you so much for joining us
and on behalf of agent Smith and myself
s uh thank you for joining us this
weekly show if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary peace
out